Add -fzero-call-used-regs to the C/C++ Compiler Options Hardening Guide (#1114)
ossf/wg-best-practices-os-developers: docs/Compiler-Hardening-Guides/Compiler-Options-Hardening-Guide-for-C-and-C++.md

[^gcc-release-notes-14]: GCC team, [GCC 14 Release Series Changes, New Features, and Fixes](https://gcc.gnu.org/gcc-14/changes.html), 2024-08-10.

### Zero call-used registers on function return to limit register data lifetime and ROP gadgets

| Compiler Flag                                                                     | Supported since             | Description                                                                                                       |
|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:---------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=used-gpr">`-fzero-call-used-regs=used-gpr`</span> | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero call-used general-purpose registers that the function used, on return.                                       |

Reviewer: The "call-used" in the description makes the descriptions awkward to read, especially when the "`all`*" variants of the options zero out all, not used call-used registers.

It's also unclear which function "the function" refers to her since the option applies to all functions.

```suggestion
| <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=used-gpr">`-fzero-call-used-regs=used-gpr`</span> | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero out general-purpose registers used by functions on return.                                       |
```

> | <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=used">`-fzero-call-used-regs=used`</span>         | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero all call-used registers that the function used, on return, including registers that are not general-purpose. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=used">`-fzero-call-used-regs=used`</span>         | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero out all registers that the function used on return, including registers that are not general-purpose. |
```

> | <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=all-gpr">`-fzero-call-used-regs=all-gpr`</span>   | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero all call-used general-purpose registers on return, whether the function used them or not.                    |

Reviewer: Either "general-purpose" registers or "all registers" to be consistent with the wording of descriptions for all variants; "all general-purpose"  breaks the pattern.

```suggestion
| <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=all-gpr">`-fzero-call-used-regs=all-gpr`</span>   | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero out general-purpose registers on return, whether the function used them or not.                    |
```

> | <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=all">`-fzero-call-used-regs=all`</span>           | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero all call-used registers on return, whether the function used them or not.                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=all">`-fzero-call-used-regs=all`</span>           | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero out all registers on return, whether the function used them or not.                                    |
```

> | <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=skip">`-fzero-call-used-regs=skip`</span>         | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Zero no call-used registers (the default).                                                                        |

Reviewer: More direct language:

```suggestion
| <span id="-fzero-call-used-regs=skip">`-fzero-call-used-regs=skip`</span>         | GCC 11.0.0<br/>Clang 16.0.0 | Do not zero out any registers (the default).                                                                        |
```

We recommend `-fzero-call-used-regs=used-gpr`. It is the value the Linux kernel builds with when `CONFIG_ZERO_CALL_USED_REGS` is enabled[^kernel-zero-call-used-regs], and it covers the general-purpose registers that ROP chains and register-based information exposures actually depend on, while zeroing the fewest registers needed to do so.

#### Performance implications

The cost is proportional to the number of registers zeroed on each function return, and so increases across `used-gpr`, `used`, `all-gpr`, and `all`; the `all` forms pay to zero registers the function never touched. For `used-gpr`, the Linux kernel documents a performance impact of less than 1% on most workloads[^kernel-zero-call-used-regs].

Binary size also grows, and the growth is architecture-dependent: the kernel reports image growth of less than 1% on x86_64 and about 5% on arm64[^kernel-zero-call-used-regs]. Projects that are sensitive to binary size should measure the impact on their own target before enabling the option.

#### When not to use?

> Do not use this option with versions of Clang older than 16.0.0. Clang implemented `-fzero-call-used-regs` in 15.0.0, but a code generation bug in that implementation could produce invalid code resulting in NULL pointer dereferences at run time[^clang-zero-call-used-regs-bug].

Reviewer: It seems somewhat contradictory to recomment the option in 16.0.0 but then point to potential bugs in the feature present in Clang 17 ([[^openssh-zero-call-used-regs]](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues/69794)). Was there any conclusion as to whether the regression in Clang no longer affects newer versions of Clang?

> Code that depends on the contents of call-used registers surviving a function return may be incompatible, for example hand-written assembler, functions using a non-standard calling convention, or interfaces that return values in call-used registers outside of the platform ABI. Support is also target-dependent: Clang implements the option for AArch64, RISC-V, and x86 only[^clang-zero-call-used-regs].

Reviewer: RISC-V support is in the upcoming Clang 23 version, GCC also supports [SPARC](https://gcc.gnu.org/pipermail/gcc-cvs/2020-December/338342.html)

```suggestion
Code that depends on the contents of call-used registers surviving a function return may be incompatible, for example hand-written assembler, functions using a non-standard calling convention, or interfaces that return values in call-used registers outside of the platform ABI. Support is also target-dependent: Clang implements the option for x86, AArch64, SPARC (GCC only), and RISC-V (since Clang 23)[^clang-zero-call-used-regs].
```

> Code that depends on the contents of call-used registers surviving a function return may be incompatible, for example hand-written assembler, functions using a non-standard calling convention, or interfaces that return values in call-used registers outside of the platform ABI. Support is also target-dependent: Clang implements the option for AArch64, RISC-V, and x86 only[^clang-zero-call-used-regs].

Reviewer: Since the support is target-dependent, this option probably belongs in the situational options table under "for x86_64" and "for aarch64" in the tL;dr section.
